---
layout: page
title: Design
---


## Objective
We are completely focused on producing a great user experience through visual, interaction and user-centered design principles.

Like you, we also enjoy a well designed product. We also realize that design, much like development, can benefit greatly from a collaborative and iterative approach. 

Using a variety of tools such as user research, wireframes and prototypes we keep you and your potential customers close throughout the design process. 

## Principles
Our work defines our future. The more successful your product, the happier you and your customers will be. 

With that in mind, we abide by the following set of design principles for projects of all sizes. These principles drive the quality of our work and in turn the success of your products.

* Work as a team. We all collaborate towards attaining the optimal user experience.
* Find the best solution. Research and validate your assumptions. 
* Maintain a high level of quality. On all projects and interactions, regardless of size or deadline.
* Own the process. We are hired for our expertise, have a purpose and be prepared to explain your approach. 
* Be empathetic. Users are the focus of our efforts thus we follow a User Centered Design process.
* Design around content and user goals. If you miss this, then nothing else matters regardless of how well it looks visually.
* Iterate early and often. Share your sketches, wireframes and prototypes. 
* Educate. Collaborate with clients and explain your work.
* Honest critiques. Don't hold back, push each other to become better.
* Pixel perfection. "Good enough" is just that. 
* Embrace mobile first. Not as an option, rather the starting point.
* Simplify. When you are done, simplify then simlpify some more.

Successful projects and happy clients will propel us forward. The level of quality we produce now will define our future success.

## Services & Tools
We offer a variety of services and tools that allow us to accomplish the goals of our clients. Whether we are designing and building a website, web application or native application these services provide our clients full coverage for a successful user experience.

### **User Research** 
	User profiles, user testing, heuristic reviews, task/goal analysis

### **Interaction Design**
	Sketching, wireframes, prototype, user flows

### **Visual Design**
	Style tiles/mood boards, hi-fi comps, style guides

### **Branding**
	Logo design, brochure sites

## Our Process 
Iterative and collaborative - client and user feedback throughout

The same for web and app design - steps may be scaled, but should not be removed altogether

1. **Planning**
	- Initial Meeting (identify problems, goals and objectives, KPIs to track progress)
	- Requirements (assess needs)
	- Research (user profiles, devices, heuristic reviews: competitors and current site/app)
	- Solution Building (team discusses solutions)
	- *Present Proposal* (include reps from each discipline)

2. **Setup**
	- Interaction Design (sketch, wireframe, user flows, prototype)
	- User Testing
	- Content Development (site map, IA, content outline, writing)
	- Visual Design (style tiles, mood boards, comps)

3. **Build**
	- Coding the User Interface
	- Preparing Design Assets
	- Content Population
	- Cross Platform, Device and Browser Testing
	- UX QA (identify and address UX debt)

4. **Launch & Analyze**
	- Training (documentation, style guides, admin training)
	- Analyze (Progress on KPIs)
	- Technical Support
	- Refine (user test, iterate and improve)


