---
layout: page
title: Vision
---

The vision for Cramer Dev and the core values that we adopt as a company provide us the framework and latitude to act autonomously in our quest to deliver exceptional value to our clients and the people who use our products. We have a clearly defined purpose for doing what we do, and we have core values that outline the attitude through which we work towards accomplishing the vision. 

## Purpose

Cramer Dev is a collection of designers, artists, and engineers who are masters of the craft of utilizing web and internet technology to build and scale innovative and transformative businesses. The true purpose of any good and reputable business is to deliver real value to customers. In a very real sense this means that building successful businesses means helping to make people's lives better. Cramer Dev strives to find opportunities to be compassionate toward customers and users of the products we build by creating superior experiences and products that enrich people's lives. 

We believe the internet is the most fundamentally transformative innovation ever created by mankind. It has democratized access to knowledge about the world and about one's self. The internet has revolutionized communication, the way we empathize with one another, interact and work together, assemble and organize ourselves, expose injustices, and build things together. The internet has enabled us to transcend the traditional and historical limitations of human interaction. It has given a voice to those who have had no voice before. It has enabled the weak to organize and overthrow governments. It has given the shut ins a way to be heard. It has rewritten the rules of what is possible regarding human interactions at the most basic levels.
   
We believe that many constructs within our world are in the process of being reinvented and re-envisioned and that this effort is being lead by entrepreneurs. Just like the industrial revolution and the agricultural revolution forever changed the lives of billions of people worldwide and made those who were once dying and starving able to live fruitful and productive lives, we believe that we are in the midst of a knowledge, communication, and empathy revolution that is having an impact on the world that is of similar magnitude. We believe that entrepreneurs and digital builders are the revolutionaries of this movement. We are those revolutionaries. And we are changing the world from the inside out in small ways and in large ways.
  
No entrepreneur can be successful alone. Everyone needs help. We exist to help entrepreneurs. We know that our role is to carry the weight of building beautiful and functional interactive products. Cramer Dev is relentlessly committed to doing interactive product development as well as it can be done. Because we are focused on this effort both in practice and in theory, we can provide significant value to entrepreneurs and stakeholders by acting as a technical co-founder of a product or by providing expert craftsmanship as part of an ongoing effort.

We know that building a great product goes well beyond the act of writing functional and beautiful code or creating engaging and pleasing interface designs. Creating remarkable products means building business models that are focused on delivering real value to customers and return on investment for stakeholders. Because of that fact, we make it our mission to be masters of business model design and the process of building new enterprises.
  
We purpose to participate in this revolution by developing business relationships with companies that are positioned to deliver exceptional value to customers through new and innovative businesses. Our services offerings are specifically:

* Business Model and Product Ideation
* Product Design & Development
* Limited Investing & Co-Founding
* Research & Development of New Products & Technologies

We seek to structure our business relationships so that our clients are served in the best way possible. Our ideal arrangement involves creating focused opportunities for small teams to do their best work. We are willing to be innovative and creative in our approach provided we believe that the client will be served uniquely well by our team.


## Core Values

###Lead Through Service & Excellence
>Leadership is often the greatest need in any organization. In creating a new interactive product or startup, this is especially important. The people at Cramer Dev seek to provide technical leadership through facilitating well managed projects, promoting good communication, practicing sustainable software development methodologies, and advocating quality UX design and application architecture. 

###Be an Agent for Change and Continuous Improvement
> Our pursuit is to do product design and development as well as it can be done. Succeeding at this pursuit in an ever changing market and technology environment means that we must continually update and improve our methodologies and practices. This means that the members of the company must be agents for positive change and that we as an organization must be agile. Considering our humble beginnings, this has been our history and it will continue to be part of what makes us successful in the future.

###Pursue Learning and Mastery of Craft
> Cramer Dev seeks to build high quality user experiences and technically sound products and applications. This enables startups and other organizations to offer a compelling product experience to customers and it also enables the product development team to quickly iterate and deliver value to end users in an evolving market. In order to enable us to continue delivering this value, each member of the organization must make it their pursuit to never stop learning and to pursue mastery of their respective crafts. We hire people who are on this trajectory and we support them in their continued efforts.

###Be Adventurous, Creative, and Open-Minded 
> The inherent adventure in solving problems and building new products is just part of why we love serving startups.  This allows us to employ creativity and open-mindedness as we do things that have never before been done. In this way, we live out the part of the human spirit in this new digital frontier that is adventure, creativity, and exploration.

###Make a Better Way
> Every project that we are involved with is, at its heart, an attempt to make a better way. We are not satisfied with the incumbent, the status quo, the way it has always been. We embrace disruption; we love fixing what's broken; we pursue creating simpler, more elegant solutions.

###Build a Positive Team & Family Spirit
> We spend all day working together and we are passionate about doing our best work every day. A positive team and family spirit means that we are encouraging each other in our work, but also in our lives. Many of us have families and we want to support that pursuit as part of a balanced life. We also know that behind every problem and failure is a solution and opportunity to do better next time. We pursue believing the best in all situations.

###Share Our Knowledge, Networks, and Empathy
> Succeeding in life and business is hard. But it is near impossible if you try to do it alone. We appreciate everyone who has helped us, believed in us, shared knowledge with us, and encouraged us along the way.  We seek to return the favor and give back to the next generation of world changers.

###Be Honest, Transparent, and Strive for Integrity
> Building trust with our clients and partners is what our business relationships are built on. Honesty is always the best policy. We seek to build trust with our partners through being transparent and always doing the right thing.  This is the hard thing to do, but it is how we do it. 

###Be Generous and Humble
> Being generous with everyone we get to serve, even if they are not clients, is what we do. We maintain an attitude of thankfulness for all the successes and accomplishments that we have achieved.

###Be Passionate and Work Hard
> Part of the human experience is caring deeply about our work. We do our best work when we are most passionate about what we're doing. But life is short and things change fast, so we seek to stop short of becoming emotionally invested in the projects that we are fortunate enough to work on. But we always work hard and seize every opportunity we are given.

## Mindset

### Product Development
Here at Cramer Dev, we whole heartedly believe that the most effective way to build interactive products hinges on two key principles:

1. *Be Agile* - Business needs are constantly evolving. By structuring our work deliverables in smaller chunks and shipping products more often, we have the opportunity to both deliver value to the market more quickly and also to learn and validate our assumptions sooner rather than later. If you haven't read it yet, check out the [Manifesto For Agile Software Development](http://agilemanifesto.org/) 
2. *Run Lean* - Make assumptions, create hypothesis, develop tests, and obtain validated learning about what the market really wants. This is where we get to put on our mad scientist hat and use empirical data to ensure we are building something with the right product to market fit. If you're unfamiliar with the concept of "lean development," you can check out this [great resource from Ash Maurya](http://practicetrumpstheory.com/blog/)


### User Experience and Design
Sweet text here

### Engineering
Engineers are hard core
